Game Proposal - Color Puzzle

In Depth Section:

The game I’m proposing is a simple, top down pixel art game that centers around the
player using colors and color changing abilities to solve various puzzles. The general narrative
would be open to the game designer, but the core gameplay loop would center around the
player trying to escape a maze whose obstacles are doors of different colors. The player would
only be able to walk through doors whose color matches the player’s current color, and the
player’s color could only be changed by standing on top of specially marked ‘swap tiles’. Each
swap tile would be marked to indicate how it will change the player’s color and as an added
layer of complexity, the player, through their actions, would be able to change said mark. For
example, by going through a green door and interacting with a button, the swap tile that
originally turned the player green could now turn them blue, allowing them access to a new
door.

The designer of this game would need to import some fairly basic tilesets in order to
build out the level. Depending on their familiarity with pixel art, they might want to customize the
tile sets to fit their purposes. If the designer is proficient with pixel art, they could create a
custom player character that would be able to integrate the color swapping nature of this game
into its design.

In order to make this game run, the designer will have to implement several different
scripted behaviors. The most important ones will be the script that governs whether or not a
player can go through a door, and the script that manages the color changing behavior for the
player character. Both scripts will likely be quite straightforward, using a combination of
[SerializedFields] and OnTriggerEnters to hold information on different colors and compare
those colors at appropriate times. By modifying the colors in the inspector, the designer will
have full control over how many colors to include in a level, and thus how complicated or simple
to make a level.

—-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bullet Point Section
Theme
 Art - Top Down Pixel
 Genre - Puzzle Maze
 Title - Color Puzzle(?)
 Narrative - Open to the designer, possible maze-escape themes
 
Game Mechanics
 Player is able to change color by interacting with ‘Swap Tiles’
    Swap Tiles have an indicated color that they will pass on to the player
 Doors are locked according to color
    Player can only pass through a door if they currently match its color
 Goal of each level is to find the ‘exit door’
 
 Assets to import
    Tilesets for map creation
    Pixel art avatar to represent the player
    Possible pixel art creation on behalf of the designer to improve game’s appearance

Scripted Behaviors
 Swap Tiles
    -Store a reference to a color
    -Change player’s sprite renderer color to match tile color
 Door
   -Store reference to a color
   -Deny access if a player’s color doesn't match a door’s
 Player Controls
    -Movement
    -Interaction with doors and swap tiles
    -Possibly implement a way to change the color of a swap tile?
 
 IMPORTANT NOTE
    -Designer will have to keep careful track of which colors they’re picking
    when making puzzles and it is recommended that they use the color
    saving feature of the Unity Inspector’s color palette
 
 Modified Behavior
    -Designers have free reign to adjust the size and complexity of 
    each puzzle by implementing many different colors into a single level
    -An interesting line of development could be the implementation of a 
    way to ‘find’ colors that could be applied to swap tiles found elsewhere

—-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHANGES
 Added a spawning machine that spawns a color tile
 Created an inventory system to manage colors the player picks, which then swaps out the
    tile from there are changes the player's color
 Colors are objects that have a changeable value for how much are worth 
    so the player could pick up a bunch of the same color in a level
 Player has a grid/chess-like style movement instead of being freeform
 Doors have a boolean that checks whether or not it is the exit door for level implementation
 Added a GUI the displays a timer, the current level and the color the player current 
    has loaded for other implementations